# Checkpost 2 for ECE 470 project

## Forward Kinematics
    In this checkpost I created a function that computes the forward kinematics of the robot (Sawyer from Rethink robotics)
    A file named ForwardKinematics.pdf has been attached in the folder that shows the derivation of the forward kinematic equations of the robot. The dimensions of the robot can be found here:
    http://mfg.rethinkrobotics.com/intera/Sawyer_Hardware#Sawyer_Hardware_Overview
    Or we can use VREP to find the location and orientation of the end effector. 
    Using those parameters, we can compute the final pose of the robot. I have implemented the matrix exponenetial method.

## Running the code
    Make sure to have the move.py file and fk.py file in the same directory as vrep.py, remoteAPI.dylib and vrepConst.py.
    Open vrep using the following command on the terminal window after navigating to the location of the vrep application folder:
    ./vrep.app/Contents/MacOS/vrep
    Open the scene created in the previous checkpost. Add a dummy object to the scene by clicking Add>Dummy. Make sure to increase the size of the dummy object to make it visible. Do not rename it (leave it as "Dummy")

    Open a new terminal window, and navigate to the directory where all the .py files are located. Run the following command:
    python fk.py

## Output
    You should be prompted to enter a joint angle value for joint 1. This value is in radians. You will successively be asked
    for values for 7 total joints (all in rad)

    In the VREP GUI you should see the dummy object move to a new location and orientation. After a couple of seconds the robot will also move, with the end effector aligning with the dummy object as the final pose. The robot will stay in the pose for 5 seconds before the simulation terminates.

    In the command window you should see a 4x4 matrix, which represents the final pose, 3 float numbers which are the euler angles of the dummy variable, and the current joint angle for each joint.

# Checkpost 1 for ECE 470 project

    This submission for the project demonstrates the first set of requirements from the ECE 470 project. I have chosen Rethink robotics Sawyer as my platform. I will be demonstrating all the joints moving, along with an object.

## Getting Started
    Create a folder outside the v-rep folder and copy the following files in it:
    vrep/programming/remoteApiBindings/python/python/vrep.py
    vrep/programming/remoteApiBindings/python/python/vrepConst.py
    vrep/programming/remoteApiBindings/lib/lib/<system>/remoteApi.dylib

    Relace <system> with Mac, Linux, or Windows depending on what you are running.
    Move the check1.py file into this folder.

### Prerequisites
    Install v-rep. No dependencies required. Install anaconda to allow external python scripting.

### Installing

    Download V-REP PRO EDU from the Coppelia Robotics website:
        http://www.coppeliarobotics.com

    I renamed this folder vrep because I am efficient and want to type fewer characters.

    I suggest running V-REP from the command line (e.g., in a terminal). Inside vrep, type:
    ./vrep.app/Contents/MacOS/vrep
    
    You should see the GUI appear. In the terminal, you should also see these lines (among others):

    To write python code, first install python. I recommend conda (Products -> Download -> Python 3.6 version):

    https://www.anaconda.com

## Running the tests

    Open a terminal and run test.py after navigating to your code folder. You should see Sawyer move in the v-rep window with the following printing on your terminal.

    current value of first joint variable: theta = 0.000000
    current value of first joint variable: theta = 1.570797

## Authors

    Varun Jain
    NetID: vjain10
    ECE 470 project
    Spring 2018


